
What label?psy
382
PSY
La belle indifference, a type of conversion disorder.
See distinction between somatic disorder and conversion disorder. Since these are more challenging to differentiate.
Incremental success
https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/09567976221075302?journalCode=pssa
PSY
PSY
Hoarding
https://bigthink.com/neuropsych/mind-hoarder-help/
PSY
Consider the combination of symptom with anosognosia relative to that symptom. A shield, knife, or parrot wrapped in an invisibility cloak.
PSY


Syndrome versus disorder?



PSY

Anxiety. As described in some literature.


‘Anxiety is a difficult emotion to describe. The colorful leaves outside the window no longer seemed vibrant; they seemed glossy as if being revealed in an overexposed technicolor film. The twitter of the birds sounded like a radio commercial. My new beagle puppy snored in a comer as if she were a debauched old bitch. The day seemed overcast even as the sun reflecting off a white tablecloth in the dining room blinded my eyes’ (Cockcroft, The Dice Man: 318).




Mercedes electric car EQXX prototype.


Has some success!


'The car traveled 1,008 km (626 miles), in real-world conditions and traffic, between the group's research center in Sindelfingen in southern Germany and Cassis on the French Riviera, Mercedes announced in a statement. The battery's state of charge on arrival was around 15 percent, amounting to a remaining range of around 140 kilometers (87 miles), and the average consumption was a record-breaking low of 8.7 kWh per 100 kilometers (7.1 kWh per 62 miles). It arrived after almost 12 hours.'


'Equipped with a battery of one hundred kilowatt hours (kWh)'


'The Mercedes-Benz electric S class EQS, current spearhead of the group's luxury electric vehicle at more than 100,000 euros ($108,308), consumes between 16 and 17kWh over 100km, often more in real conditions. The autonomy is 780km according to the WLTP standard.'


'Tesla Model 3 and Tesla Model S, their direct competitors, display up to 650 km of autonomy for a consumption generally between 16 and 20 kWh per 100 km.'


https://www.thestreet.com/.amp/technology/mercedes-pulls-off-a-feat-that-should-worry-tesla




PSY


Effective lie detection.


https://academic.oup.com/hcr/article-abstract/40/4/442/4093736?redirectedFrom=fulltext




PSY

‘if you were given direct electrical access to your reward system, you would probably self-stimulate without stopping until you died’ (Russell: 38).


Excerpt From: Stuart Russell. “Human Compatible”. Apple Books.



PSY


Components of empathy: ‘Jamil Zaki and Kevin Ochsner (Chapter 13) pick out an Experience Sharing System (ESS), distinct from a Mental State Attribution System (MSAS), as what they call a “tale of two systems”. This converges on the emotional vs. cognitive empathy systems delineated by Perry and Shamay-Tsoory’ (Baron-Cohen, Lombardo, et al. 2013: preface vii).




PSY


Transcript of conversation with ASPD.


http://archive.ttbook.org/book/transcript/me-thomas-confessions-sociopath




Eristic. Adj of or relating to debate or argument; a person given to debate or argument.




So far as goes the confabulating ego, fear is at once tonic to the content of deception and tonic to the primary deception, ‘I am not really afraid’.




Comp Sci


https://levelup.gitconnected.com/sorting-data-structures-in-python-ceba201d33d2




After a time, skill in reading only increases as a function of the understanding. The anticipatory understanding?




Don’t forget and neglect hendiadys.




Consider the relation between intolerability and necessity.




PSY
PSY


BTR: Simon Baron-Cohen, Zero Negative Empathy (or something?).




Dice Man - notes (about 4 pages so far) moved to dedicated document (10/April/2022)




[this is early draft; see Drive for up to date draft]
A Whisper if the Only Sound


Star struck on a stage before the stars and the uninterested earth
Bitten in conflict for possession of pleasure
Hateful eyes make something of you
A guilt-strike returns under the cover of accident.


The fingers and face of One
Dressed in flowing armour ark-like
Moved not by mind
By the Mother of thunder, her blessing.


Rage swallows the body of her brother
Aggression, too small to put up a fight
A song lost in the evolution of birds
Rage has the legs of panic, the deep indifference of delight


The indifferent laughter-storm if perfectly defiled Light.




PSY


Nils-Åke Hillarp


‘the reward system. This is an internal signaling system, mediated by dopamine, that connects positive and negative stimuli to behavior. Its workings were discovered by the Swedish neuroscientist Nils-Åke Hillarp and his collaborators in the late 1950s. It causes us to seek out positive stimuli, such as sweet-tasting foods, that increase dopamine levels; it makes us avoid negative stimuli, such as hunger and pain, that decrease dopamine levels. In a sense it’s quite similar to E. coli’s glucose-seeking mechanism, but much more complex. It comes with built-in methods for learning, so that our behavior becomes more effective at obtaining reward over time. It also allows for delayed gratification, so that we learn to desire things such as money that provide eventual reward rather than immediate reward. One reason we understand the brain’s reward system is that it resembles the method of reinforcement learning developed in AI, for which we have a very solid theory’ (37).


Excerpt From: Stuart Russell. “Human Compatible”. Apple Books.




PSY
Neumann


Cf. Conduct disorder and aspd (sociopathy):


‘Progression through the archetypal phases, the patriarchal orientation of consciousness, the formation of the superego as the representative of collective values within the personality, the existence of a collective value-canon, all these things are necessary conditions of normal, ethical development. If any one of these factors is inhibited, developmental disturbances result. A disturbance of the first two factors, which are specifically psychic, leads to neuroticism; a disturbance of the other two, which are cultural, expresses itself more in social maladjustment, delinquency, or criminality’ (405).



Here’s another definition of science: the suspension of subjective perspective.




PSY
Neumann


‘the development and cultivation of consciousness required by the collective [i.e. super-ego regulation by culture and society] constitute at the same time an uprooting. The inner collective tie to the instincts must in large measure be given up, and, as a secondary security for the ego, new roots must be sunk in the subsoil of the collective and in its ruling canon of cultural values. This process of transplantation means moving from instinct-centeredness to ego-centeredness, and any failure here brings a crop of developmental disorders and illnesses’ (404-05).




PSY


Speculation.


A sign of the integration of aggression is a lack of tension or unsteadiness, and indeed a lack of aggression; instead, an effortless transparency of ‘either do this or’ – and the Weight of all Necessity behind.




Our environment is for the most part symbolic articulation and interpersonal mind-state inference. What part can aggression play in so ‘virtual’ or ‘non-physical’ a landscape?


The point is not that aggression does play a part, e.g. in verbal insult etc., but that aggression can really ‘make no sense’ here, where physical violence undermines the nature of this non-physical dimension of our environment. Again, this is not to say that physical violence itself has no place, or that physical violence cannot result from symbolic articulation, or may go hand in hand with verbal threats etc.; it is just that the very nature of interpersonal symbolic exchange tends towards abstract significance and away from physical significance. Aggression, therefore, whose significance is grounded in physical significance, can only contradict its very nature when applied to the domain of symbolic articulation.


The point, then, is to identify the phenomenon or phenomena that are the sublimation of aggression at the symbolic level. Our first caveat is thus not to confuse ourselves with phenomena such as ‘verbal insult’ or ‘condescension’ etc.


What is the legitimate part to play for aggression proper? Well, it is the focused, intense, and outbound passion motivating the attacking predator, and correspondingly the focused, intense, and outbound passion motivating the defending prey. It is the rightful affective response to inflicted or threatened pain, that is, to the threat or actuality of bodily injury. It is the passion driving the response to an occasion’s necessity to fight.


Now, aggression has other parts to play. Not all is life or death. There are modulations of the predator-prey confrontation that also exercise the passion of aggression. Here we may consider ‘shows’ of aggression. These are signals – though we should remember that such signals only work due to the possibility of an indexical concomitant to the symbolic show deferring violence. For example, a lion growls and brandishes her teeth: hear the resonance of my size, the depth of my solidity; see the readiness of my sharp jaws – so let it be that intimidation replace any move towards actual violence against me. Thus it is that a pair of lions may face off, exchanging mere shows of violence, before either intimidation win out or aggression spill out.


A point of clarity is needed here. If I walk up to you suddenly, shouting and threatening to hurt you – such behaviour must be called ‘aggressive’. Indeed, my very tone of voice in this instance will be said to be an ‘aggressive’ tone of voice. But why would this behaviour in this case be described as ‘aggressive’, that is, if no violence has yet happened and no violence need happen thereafter? The reason is that such behaviour has increased the likelihood that violence is going to occur, clearly enough. In other words, any behaviour, either part of a ritualised signalling or not, so far as moving an interpersonal exchange towards the likelihood of physical violence, can be rightly called aggressive. In short, aggressive behaviour is behaviour that encourages or tends towards physical violence.


Now, consider that you may whisper delicately to a henchman to attack me. Such an exchange will likely result in and directly encourage horrible violence. However, though we may nominate this ‘total speech-act’ to be ‘aggressive’ or ‘an act of aggression’, we might think twice about the delicate whisper itself. For example, we might admit that ‘the manner of the command was not aggressive, though the content of the command indeed was’. I think this is a key differentiation, for it highlights the important presence of a certain emotion in conventional shows of aggression, which are indeed energised with the fire of that same passion that motivates serious physical attack. In other words, ‘aggression’ points to the emotion that animates behaviour, rather than the behaviour itself. [To continue – we can see the emotion mirroring in ways the properties of the physical violence? Adjacent but independent point: ‘aggression’ is used metonymically for ‘violence’ - e.g. ‘Russia’s aggression towards Ukraine has largely been condemned by the international community’. No doubt the emotion of aggression has been present among Putin’s ministry etc., but the sense of the expression literally refers to violence, not ‘the emotion driving focused attack’. The statement is talking about behaviour, actions, and not about psychological affect.]




PSY


The Essence of Boredom
Mikulas, William L; Vodanovich, Stephen J.
The Psychological Record; Granville, Ohio, etc. Vol. 43, Iss. 1,  (Winter 1993): 3.


Need to get hold of this!



PSY


I think I’ve come upon a key phenomenon in the ‘problematic’ of the human psyche/condition: intolerability.


I.e. this phenomenon cannot exist in the non-subjective world.




A skilful writer has our protagonist walk in the wrong direction on occasion, and although they and we, the reader, must see that it is wrong somehow, we must yet desire very much to walk in that direction – we must be moved to empathise in that temporary tragic trajectory.




Infinite special-ness or identity or Being does not mean relative special-ness. The very point is that infinite special-ness has no comparison but is preternaturally and inherently special.


The superstition and mistake, precisely therefore, is to regard or otherwise act out this infinite condition in relative or interpersonal terms.




British Government pays long-standing debt to Iran, and Nazanin Zaghari-Ratcliffe finally released: 'The British-Iranian was detained in April 2016, and spent nearly six years in detention for allegedly plotting against the Iranian government'.


BBC News - How is a UK debt to Iran connected to Nazanin Zaghari-Ratcliffe?
https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-56376852




Was lifelessness then the original womb?


[Kinda lame but noteworthy? Can it be developed and reworded? NB I’ve already reworded it with the ‘was…then the’ structure.]




PSY


Neumann on creativity


‘creativity in all its forms is always the product of a meeting between the masculine world of ego consciousness and the feminine world of the soul’ (355)




PSY


Note the ASPD concerns over ‘authority’, ‘respect’, and ‘law/command/control/dominance/obedience’.


And what, as a separate question, is the relation between these and what I’ll term the ‘anosognosia of responsibility’?




PSY

Neumann

Shadow


‘[...] in psychological development, the self lies hidden in the shadow’ (353)


‘The way to the self lies through him; behind the dark aspect he represents there stands the aspect of wholeness, and only by making friends with the shadow do we gain the friendship of the self’ (353) Cf. The literary term, anagnorisis.


‘The formation of the shadow goes together with the introjection of the antagonist, a figure we have already encountered when dealing with the psychology of myths. The assimilation of evil and the incorporation of aggressive tendencies always center on the shadow. The "dark brother" is as much a symbol of the shadow side as the bush-soul of primitive. Only by incorporating this dark side does the personality put itself into a posture of defense. Evil, no matter by what cultural canon it be judged, is a necessary constituent of individuality as its egoism, its readiness to defend itself or to attack, and lastly, as its capacity to mark itself off from the collective’ (Neumann: 352)


+
‘The shadow roots the personality in the subsoil of the unconscious, and this shadowy link with the archetype of the antagonist, i.e., the devil, is in the deepest sense part of the creative abyss of every living personality. That is why in myths the shadow often appears as a twin, for he is not just the "hostile brother," but the companion and friend, and it is sometimes difficult to tell whether this twin is the shadow or the self, the deathless "other." ‘ (353).


+
‘he is the "keeper of the gate," the guardian of the threshold [between unconscious and the conscious personality]’ (353). Cf. Ghostbusters. ‘Are you the Gatekeeper?’


+
‘This unconscious mass component is opposed to consciousness and the world of culture. It resists conscious development, is irrational and emotional, anti-individual and destructive. It corresponds mythologically to the negative aspect of the Great Mother – it is her murderous accomplice, the adversary and man-slaying boar. This negative, unconscious part of the personality is archaic in the most negative sense, for it is the beast-man at bay. He becomes the shadow and dark brother of the ego only if, through a process of integration, the ego consciously descends into the depths of the unconscious, there to seek him out and bind him to the conscious mind. But when the reverse happens, when, that is to say, consciousness is overpowered and wholly possessed by him, we get the frightful phenomenon of regression to the mass man as manifested in the mass epidemics of recollectivization’ (439)


+
‘in a homogeneous psyche the negative element has a meaningful place as decomposition and death, as chaos and prima materia, as the leaden counterweight which roots growing things to the earth, in a fragmented psyche with a defeatist, regressing ego it becomes a cancer and a nihilistic danger’ (440)




McCarthy: ‘While inside the vaulting of the ribs between his knees the darkly meated heart pumped of who’s will and the blood pulsed and the bowels shifted in their massive blue convolutions of who’s will and the stout thighbones and knee and cannon and the tendons like flaxen hawsers that drew and flexed and drew and flexed at their articulations and of who’s will all sheathed and muffled in the flesh and the hooves that stove wells in the morning groundmist and the head turning side to side and the great slavering keyboard of his teeth and the hot globes of his eyes where the world burned’ (All the Pretty Horses: 132).


John Grady riding on the stallion of deep chestnut.




Cienaga


Bolson




Apophenia and pareidolia


https://earthsky.org/human-world/seeing-things-that-arent-there/#:~:text=Seeing%20familiar%20objects%20or%20patterns,it%20from%20time%20to%20time.


Also, how to differentiate from and connect to sortilege?




Gorgias on Being


https://www.worldhistory.org/article/1952/gorgias-on-nature-on-the-non-existent/




Begun 3 March 2022
What label?